<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Mon Dec 16, 2019 : #facilitation (osg)</title>
</head>
<body>
<h3>Mon Dec 16, 2019 : #facilitation (osg)</h3>
<span style="color: #5a4592"><span style="font-size: small">(09:08:49)</span> <b>lmichael:</b></span> @rynge and @christinalk, can you carry the Research Facilitation call without me? I’ll be at a doc appointment for kiddo, so can’t join in, and the major topics are (1) update on website and login mode transition steps (Mats can update on what he, Lincoln, and I discussed), and (2) next steps for out-of-date documentation pages (Christina).<br/>
<span style="color: #5a4592"><span style="font-size: small">(09:09:10)</span> <b>lmichael:</b></span> I’ll check in later for an update. Thank you all, and apologies for the short notice.<br/>
<span style="color: #4cc091"><span style="font-size: small">(09:22:36)</span> <b>cbrown58:</b></span> I have a conflict with today's meeting and will be absent from the call. I'll review the notes, but let me know if you need anything from me. Feel free to assign me some documentation things @christinalk<br/>
<span style="color: #674b1b"><span style="font-size: small">(18:48:32)</span> <b>rynge:</b></span> <b>@here</b> I have added a transition place holder docs as discussed today. I'm not worried about the text at this point, but more an outline what we need to include. Please edit:<br/>
<span style="color: #674b1b"><span style="font-size: small">(18:48:47)</span> <b>rynge:</b></span> <a href="https://github.com/OSGConnect/connectbook/tree/master/new-docs-jan-2020">https://github.com/OSGConnect/connectbook/tree/master/new-docs-jan-2020</a><br/>
</body>
</html>
